Idea: lookgn at music genres and possibly and the transition of genres 
Different ways of measuring popularity of genres  

Other: what profession did people born in utrecht pursue 
Other: change in religious belief for area 
Other: blues musicians as christian 
Other: map of censhorship to the data 

LABELS:
If owl#Thing: just Musical artist is usually just the artist  [cause Musician - can also be producer, etc.]
If Ontology/occupation/label then also musician 

For genre:
ontology/genrelabel 


Define what genres 
Wikepedia boom? For bias : how many people are counted for each year 
Look at proportion 


Main idea: transition of blues into subgenres of blues 
Rq: how did the popularity of blues 

How can we characterize the popularity of the genre2 emerging from genre1?
Data Q

Remake dictionary! 
Filter data for musical artists/musicians (see labels): 
Filter data for blues under genre: ontology/genre_label, could string it for just eg. “blues” in eg. “bluesrock”
Find start year (first year in years active)* and end year 

Both genres on a graph (* where is the relation?) 




*limitation: occupation could be different at the begin/end of years active 


Rock into Punk 
Rock into heavy metal 
if more time: 
Knowing that rock came from blues: is this reflected in the number of artists (rock vs blues) over time, [or is it just because there are more popular rock artists



Rock into Punk 
In relation to the year before, 

general emergence tendencies in music genres: 
Mapping the emergence (start year) of seperately rock and punk artists 

protoRQ: Is the emergence of the punk genre, a subgenre of rock, reflected in the emergence of punk musicians?
Considering punk (& metal) as a subgenre of rock, is this connection reflected in the emergence trends of musicians?
Are rock's subgenres reflected in the genre's emerging musicians?
How can we characterize the emergence of rock subgenres (punk, metal) through 


WORKING QUESTIONS:
RQ: What does the emergence of a child genre look like in relation to its parent genre? 
DQ: What is the effect of punk on rock in terms of the number of musicans identifying with the respective labels? (in Wikepedia)

where the number of emergences: is reflective of the genre's popularity*
*LIMITATION: only one mode of popularity (when artists started career/band)

operationalization:
punk: wider label, incl "punkrock"
rock: wider label, excl "punkrock"

subRQ: 
When did they switch over?
subDQ: year where significant increase/peak in musicians identifying with the punk label
When did the emergence of punk artists peak in comparison to the continuous emergences of rock artists? 

to make a line graph (line for each graph)




